app.js (or server.js) - This is the Application Entry Point. It initializes the Express application, applies all global middleware, sets up error handlers, and loads all the Route files.

server.js (or app.js) - This file (if separate from app.js) contains the code that actually creates and starts the HTTP server by calling app.listen(port). It also handles non-Express tasks like connecting to the database.

app.use() - This method mounts a middleware function or a sub-router (a set of routes) at a specified path. It's how you tell Express to use a specific function or set of routes for every request (or requests matching a path).
Uses: 
1. Global/Application-Level Middleware: You use app.use() without a path to apply middleware to every single incoming request. Ex: app.use(express.json()); app.use(cors()); app.use(morgan('dev')); for logging request
2. Router Mounting: You use app.use() with a path to mount a set of specific routes (which you define in your separate route files). Ex: app.use('/api/v1/auth', authRoutes); app.use('/api/v1/users', authorize, userRoutes)


Routes - Routes define the endpoint (URL + HTTP method) and point it directly to the handler function, usually in the controller.

Middleware - Intercepts the request. Middleware are functions that have access to the request/response cycle and can execute code, modify the request/response objects, end the cycle, or move to the next step using next().

Controllers - Handles HTTP context (req, res, status codes) and delegates complex logic to service.

Services - Contains all reusable business rules, calculations, and data orchestration.

Models - In Mongoose/MongoDB, this defines the schema and provides the methods for interacting with the database (e.g., User.find()).


Your understanding of the request flow is largely correct, but it's important to see where middleware fits in the chain, as it can happen at different stages.
The flow goes like this:
🧍 User/Client Request: Sends an HTTP request (e.g., POST /api/v1/users/signup).
⬇️ Server Entry (app.js): The request hits your Express application.
1️⃣ Global Middleware: The request immediately passes through any middleware you mounted globally using app.use() (e.g., JSON parser, CORS).
2️⃣ Routing: Express checks its mounted routers (app.use('/api/v1', router)) to find a match for the URL.
3️⃣ Route-Specific Middleware (The "Intercept"): If the router finds a match, it executes any middleware specific to that route (e.g., JWT authentication middleware).
4️⃣ Controller: The request finally lands in the Controller function (e.g., userController.signUp).
5️⃣ Service: The Controller immediately delegates the business logic to the Service (e.g., AuthService.signUp).
6️⃣ Model/DB: The Service uses the Model to interact with the database (e.g., User.create()).
7️⃣ Response Back: The result goes from Model $\rightarrow$ Service $\rightarrow$ Controller (which sets the status code and sends the response) $\rightarrow$ Client.